# Next.js 13 - Airbnb Clone

Airbnb clone application, uses TypeScript (StandardJS), Tailwind, Prisma (MongoDB), the application only has basic functionalities:

- Results list.
- Authentication using NextAuth (4.23.1), used providers for Credentials, Google and Github.
- Publication and removal of classified ads. Photos are stored on Cloudinary.
- Filters by category, location, number of rooms - bathrooms and date.
- Function to add to Favorites.
- Function to reserve and delete the reservation.

## Configure environment variables

Rename the file **.env.template** to **.env**

- MongoDB URL Local:

```
DATABASE_URL="mongodb+srv://user:password@domain.com/name_bd"
```

- NextAuth Secret: Any phrase of your choice

```
NEXTAUTH_SECRET="SECRET_STRING"
```

- Github ID and SECRET: Go to https://github.com/settings/developers and register an OAuth application. Then copy the ID and SECRET generated by Github.

```
GITHUB_ID=
GITHUB_SECRET=
```

- Google CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET: Go to https://console.cloud.google.com, create a project, then go to APIs and services, then go to 'OAuth consent screen' and select External, then click create, fill the basic information like Name, support email, developer contact information and then click 'Save and Continue'. For the next steps, leave the default information and also click 'Save and Continue'. After finishing the steps, go to Credentials and click on Create Credentials (OAuth Client ID), select Web Application, add name and Authorized redirect URL (http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/google) and then on the Create button, that will show us a pop-up window with the necessary information.

```
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=
```

- Cloudinary Name: Go to https://cloudinary.com and create a free account, then go to the left side in the Dashboard option and the name assigned by the cloudinay platform will appear there.

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=""
```

- Rebuild the node modules and build Next

```
npm install
npm run dev
```
